---
title: v5.0.0
description: Release notes for Nuxt Robots v5.0.0.
---

## Introduction

The v5 major of Nuxt Robots is a simple release to remove deprecations and add support for the [Nuxt SEO v2 stable](https://nuxtseo.com/announcement).

## :icon{name="i-noto-warning"} Breaking Features

### Site Config v3

Nuxt Site Config is a module used internally by Nuxt Robots.

It's major update to v3.0.0 shouldn't have any direct affect your site, however, you may want to double-check
the [breaking changes](https://github.com/harlan-zw/nuxt-site-config/releases/tag/v3.0.0).

### Removed `rules` config

The v4 of Nuxt Robots provided a backward compatibility `rules` config. As it was deprecated, this is no longer supported. If you're using `rules`, you should migrate to the `groups` config or use a robots.txt file.

```diff
export default defineNuxtConfig({
	robots: {
-    	rules: {},
+    	groups: {}
	}
})
```

### Removed `defineRobotMeta` composable

This composable didn't do anything in v4 as the robots meta tag is enabled by default. If you'd like to control the robot meta tag rule, use the [`useRobotsRule()`](https://nuxtseo.com/docs/robots/api/use-robots-rule) composable.

```diff
- defineRobotMeta(true)
+ useRobotsRule(true)
```

### Removed `RobotMeta` component

This component was a simple wrapper for `defineRobotMeta`, you should use [`useRobotsRule()`](https://nuxtseo.com/docs/robots/api/use-robots-rule) if you wish to control the robots rule.

### Removed `index`, `indexable` config

When configuring robots using route rules or [Nuxt Content](https://nuxtseo.com/docs/robots/guides/content) you could control the robot's behavior by providing `index` or `indexable` rules.

These are no longer supported and you should use `robots` key.

```diff
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  routeRules: {
    // use the `index` shortcut for simple rules
-    '/secret/**': { index: false },
+    '/secret/**': { robots: false },
  }
})
```

## :icon{name="i-noto-rocket"} Features

### Config `blockAiBots`

AI crawlers can be beneficial as they can help users finding your site, but for some educational sites or those not
interested in being indexed by AI crawlers, you can block them using the `blockAIBots` option.

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  robots: {
    blockAiBots: true
  }
})
```

This will block the following AI crawlers: `GPTBot`, `ChatGPT-User`, `Claude-Web`, `anthropic-ai`, `Applebot-Extended`, `Bytespider`, `CCBot`, `cohere-ai`, `Diffbot`, `FacebookBot`, `Google-Extended`, `ImagesiftBot`, `PerplexityBot`, `OmigiliBot`, `Omigili`
