---
title: Robots.txt vs Robots Meta Tag
description: Learn the difference between disallowing and noindexing a page.
---

## Robots.txt

The robots.txt file has two main directives that can be used to control how [crawlers](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/crawling-indexing/overview-google-crawlers) interact with your site, `Disallow` and `Allow`.

Disallowing tells the crawler not to access the page, while allowing tells the crawler it can access the page.

```robots-txt [robots.txt]
User-agent: *
Disallow: /my-secret-page # Don't access this page
```

It does not inform [search engine crawlers](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/crawling-indexing/googlebot) on whether the page should be indexed or not, only if they can access it.

## Meta Robots

The `<meta name="robots" content="...">`{lang="html"} meta tag (and `X-Robots-Tag` HTTP header)  is used to configure the indexing behaviour of a page. There are [several directives](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/crawling-indexing/robots-meta-tag#directives) that can be useful
for different scenarios.

The `noindex` directive tells the crawler not to show the page in search results.

```html
<meta name="robots" content="noindex">
```

## Disallow vs Noindex

**Disallow**: Crawlers can not access the page at all.

**Indexing**: Crawlers can access, but they won't show the page in search results.

To highlight the difference between the two, let's imagine a scenario one of our page is within Google search results that we don't want there, `/my-secret-page`.

An immediate thought may be to block this using robots.txt, which is easy enough.

```robots-txt [robots.txt]
User-agent: *
Disallow: /my-secret-page
```

However, we've created an issue where the Googlebot can't access the page to discover that it shouldn't be indexed, which can delay
it being removed from search results.

Instead, we should use the `<meta name="robots" content="noindex">`{lang="html"} meta tag to tell Googlebot to not show the page in search results.

```html
<meta name="robots" content="noindex">
```

Additionally, we may want to return a 410 status code to tell Googlebot the page is gone.
