---
title: Disabling Site Indexing
description: Learn how to disable indexing for different environments and conditions to avoid crawling issues.
navigation:
  title: "Disabling Site Indexing"
---

## Introduction

Disabling certain environments of your site from being indexed is an important practice to avoid
SEO issues.

For example, you don't want your staging or preview environments to be indexed by search engines as they will cause duplicate
content issues as well as confuse end-users.

If you need to disable specific pages from being indexed, refer to the [Disabling Page Indexing](/docs/robots/guides/disable-page-indexing) guide.

## Disable Indexing Completely

In some cases, such as internal business tools, or sites that are not ready for the public, you may want to disable indexing completely.

You can achieve this by setting the `indexable` option to `false` in your site config.

```ts
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  site: { indexable: false }
})
```

## Handling Staging Environments

Staging environments are great for testing out code before it goes to production. However, we definitely don't want
search engines to index them.

To control the indexing of these sites we will make use of the `env` Site Config, which defaults to `production`.

```dotenv [.env]
NUXT_SITE_ENV=staging
```

Nuxt Robots will disable indexing for any sites which don't have a production environment, so feel free to set this
to whatever makes sense for your project.

## Verifying Indexing

To verify that your site is not being indexed, you can check the generated `robots.txt` file, it should look something like this.

```robots
User-agent: *
Disallow: /
```

A robots meta tag should also be generated that looks like:

```html
<meta name="robots" content="noindex, nofollow">
```

For full confidence you can inspect the URL within Google Search Console to see if it's being indexed.

## Troubleshooting

If indexing is not being disabled as expected:

1. **Check your environment variable** - Make sure `NUXT_SITE_ENV` is set correctly in your `.env` file or deployment environment
2. **Verify the configuration** - Check that `site.indexable` is set to `false` in your `nuxt.config.ts`
3. **Clear your cache** - Sometimes cached responses may show old data. Try clearing your browser cache and rebuilding your app
4. **Check the robots.txt file** - Visit `/robots.txt` on your site to see the actual output
5. **Inspect the meta tags** - View page source and look for the robots meta tag in the `<head>` section
6. **Use Nuxt DevTools** - Open the Robots tab in Nuxt DevTools to see the active configuration (see [Troubleshooting](/docs/robots/getting-started/troubleshooting) guide)

If you're still having issues after trying these steps, please create an issue on the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/nuxt-modules/robots) with details about your setup.
